Israeli president Isaac herzo says his
country is ready for a second
humanitarian pause in Gaza in order to
secure the release of more Israeli
captives I can reiterate the fact that
Israel is ready for another humanitarian
pores and additional humanitarian Aid in
order to enable the release of hostages
and the the responsibility lies fully
with sinir and the leadership of Hamas
Hamas has issued a statement saying it
affirms its position of categorically
rejecting any forms of negotiations
about prisoner exchange under the
continuing Israeli genocidal War however
it says we are open to any initiative
that contributes to ending the
aggression and opening The Crossings to
bring in Aid and provide relief to the
Palestinian people let's bring in our
correspondent Bernard Smith he's joining
us live from Tel Aviv and Bernard Hero's
indicated Israel's ready to negotiate as
prime minister Netanyahu set to meet
families of
captives yeah it's a significant
statement from herzo the first really
sort of public indication that momentum
is moving towards uh the idea of some
sort of pause or ceasefire the question
will be whether it is just that a pause
a humanitarian pause as the Israelis
would call it or a full ceasefire and
Netanyahu is meeting about between 15
and 19 19 families later this evening
here in Tel Aviv families of captives
they say they asked for this meeting a
week ago and they've only just got it
now and they asked for it a week ago
that was before those three captives
were shot dead accidentally by two
Israeli soldiers so momentum does seem
to be moving um that way we've also we
also know there's been meetings between
the ceries the Israelis and the
Americans in a couple of meetings in
Europe uh since Friday and on Monday and
we understand that there's going to be a
meeting in Cairo in the coming days with
Hamas representatives and that'll be the
first time there's been that sort of a
meeting since uh the collapse of the
first Seas fire more than a couple of
weeks ago yes so the families have kep
of certainly keeping up the pressure on
the Israeli government meanwhile the
Israeli economy is taking a beating
burnard because of the war 600 workers
from the Israeli Airport Authority have
been put on unpaid what impact is this
having on people's lives
there yeah and there's a thousand
airport workers are on 75% of their
reduced have their pay reduced I'm Sorry
by 75% and a thousand jobs that had been
held by reservists who are now fighting
in Gaza those jobs are not going to be
filled uh because people are not
traveling to Israel and the airport is
struggling uh because there's no Capac
because there's no people people are not
not coming to the country I think
there's about 100 flights a day instead
of 500 left hands Austrian Airlines and
swiss I say they'll resume flights on
the 8th of January but only at 30%
capacity because there isn't the traffic
and the airports are hoping other people
other airlines excuse me will res will
resume but there's a significant impact
on the economy about 5% of the of of
Israel's GDP comes from Aviation and
tourists coming into the country all
right Bernard thank you very much for
that that's Bernard Smith live in Tel
Aviv